+++
title = "Simulation de pratiques de gestion alternatives pour l'adaptation des plantations pérennes aux changements globaux"
date = "2017-12-19"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Rémi Vezy"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["0"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Thesis Manuscript"
publication_short = "Thesis"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Many agronomic systems could be at risk considering the short-term climate changes, but several effects and interactions are still uncertain. Therefore, there is an increasing need for information to better predict future climate change impacts on perennial crops and forests and to design new agricultural and silvicultural practices to cope with these changes (Brisson et al., 2010). All those changes lead to complex combinations of effects on the water and carbon balances of ecosystems, and can thus, potentially, affect agro-ecosystem production (Way et al., 2015). Process-based models (PBMs) are generally well suited to address these challenges. PBMs apply our understanding of fundamental physical and ecophysiological processes to simulate the system mechanistically (Bohn et al., 2014). They can be used to estimate fluxes and stocks of energy, water, and carbon in the ecosystem, as a function of climate, soil, and plant characteristics. Coffee growth and fruit production are particularly sensitive to high temperatures and water availability, and previous studies often predicts future huge losses of production or area cover. Nevertheless, shade provided in agroforestry systems could mitigate the effects of climate changes under different management options. Hence, during this thesis, we first updated a 3D PBM (MAESPA) to account for temperature and vapor pressure within the canopy (Figure 1), and tested it on two ecosystems, a simple homogeneous Eucalyptus plantation in Brazil, and a Coffea arabica plantation in Costa Rica with a complex canopy structure. The model gave satisfactory simulations with improved computation of net radiation, canopy temperature and latent and sensible heat fluxes compared to measurements made on both sites. Then, we used MAESPA to make metamodels, which are simple empirical functions derived from complete MAESPA simulations in a range of conditions (Christina et al., 2016; Marie et al., 2014). These metamodels were then integrated on a new dynamic crop model that we developed to assess the Coffea response to climate change, and the possible solutions offered by different agroforestry management to mitigate these effects. Consequently, we modelled several management options of coffee agroforestry systems, e.g. shade tree density and species to estimate their suitability and provision of ecosystem services under predicted future climate changes. A rating between management scenarios was then proposed by comparing canopy temperature, coffee and timber yield, carbon balance and water use of past and future coffee growth cycles, under two contrasted future climatic scenarios (RCP 4.5 and 8.5). The dynamic crop model predicts an increased coffee primary productivity thanks to the increased atmospheric CO2 concentration, but a decreased coffee yield because less flowers were initiated per coffee plants by 2100 (Figure 2). The model predicts a positive shade effect on coffee yield, especially under high mean annual temperatures, up to +20.9% yield compared to full sun plantation under RCP8.5. However, the positive effect of shade couldn't help sustaining current yields, whatever the shade tree species or management.Note: the dynamic crop model (DynACof) is now available as an R package on [github](https://github.com/VEZY/DynACof) (private repository until publication, please ask for permission to consult. Will soon be available as a public repository)"
abstract_short = "In this thesis, we used two complementary mathematical models to simulate the future behavior of coffee plantations under climate change (1979 - 2100). We studied their carbon, water, and energy balances to better understand and predict the effects of these changes on coffee production. The addition of shade trees above the coffee layer lead to higher yield compared to full sun management under increased temperature. However, coffee yield was predicted to decrease compared to current levels by 2100, whatever the shade tree species or management."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "Vezy_2017.png"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = [""]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-01718808/document"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = "https://1drv.ms/p/s!Ai0l23-LFE7riLMPbwlC8nvGGAcbAQ"
url_video = ""
url_poster = "http://www.umr-ecosols.fr/images/Doctorant/VEZYRemiPosterAG.pdf"
url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "Vezy_2017.png"
caption = "Daily simulated DIFN (Diffuse Non-Interceptance) over the CATIE agroforestry trial, Costa Rica"

+++
